Petroleum engineering, all my dad could see of
that was more oil patch. And my brother was
successful as a petroleum engineering student
and went to work for the old Humble Oil Pipeline
Exxon. And then when I let dad know I wanted to go to
A&M, he was very much for that. And he and mother
made a lot of sacrifices. trying to save up money to
assist us in coming to A&M. But I had worked some and
had tried to save up money, and I had the
valedictorian scholarship. How much was it then?
Oh, goodness. It paid your basic tuition, and
that's all it paid. I think tuition was $250 a
semester back then. It was not much, but it was, it
helped, I can assure you that. But as far as
spending money, no, it was fairly frugal. And I,
you know, most of the other fish were pretty much in
the same. And how often did you contact parents?
Writing or phone calls? You know, as much as I
could. I had... I had become a ham radio operator in
high school. And W5AC, the old radio station at
A&M, Ham Radio Club, I joined the, and that was one
of the things that you, It's where you could get
away from the other things. You could belong to the
committees over at the MSC and the student groups.
And I became a member of the ham radio club. And I
could talk to a ham in Atlanta, which is 13 miles up
above McLeod, and all on the same telephone
exchange. And I could call this ham in Atlanta, and
they'd phone patch me down to my mom and my dad. They
were on a party line, but we usually could get
through. And so a couple times a week, I talked to
home via ham radio on a phone patch. And did you
write very much, or was primary? Yes, no, we wrote,
wrote a lot. My two precious sisters kept me going.
They wrote religiously, wanting to know what was
happening to baby brother and what he was doing.
Did you drive home before Thanksgiving? Haskell,
one time illegally. We're not supposed to go. The
weekend of the Fort Worth Corps trip, TCU, Jim
Stewart, who was a senior civilian, okay, he was a
civilian student in civil engineering. And Jim
and I decided to make an excursion through McLeod
to
go by home just real quickly and maybe even find a
girl or two to take to Fort Worth with us. And we had a
car wreck. And no real serious injury. Oh, I
complained of a little bit of a back problem for a
while, but... Wasn't that Studebaker? No, no. Jim
was driving. He was a senior, and his folks were...
fairly well off. And Jim was driving a fairly new 59
Ford Galaxy. And we were driving from McLeod going
to go back up through uh... the Atlanta area known
to uh... to finish up our trip and then we had the
wreck and of course then we got caught because I
spent a couple of days uh... in the hospital and
uh... had to call back the A&M and say goodbye. What
kind of punishment did you get in the outfit? They
were uh... they were sympathetic to the extent
that uh... I uh... I came back a little bit uh...
bunged up and what have you and uh... They did not
really want to take advantage of the situation of
coming down on me too hard. They
let me know that I had done something that I was not
supposed to do. Did you make the other Corps trip
that year? Austin or Houston? Haskell, I think
maybe it was Rice. I don't remember exactly. Yes, I
made the Corps trip, sure did. On a typical Corps
trip, where did you and your buddies stay? As
freshmen? Particularly as freshmen. Like if you
went to Houston, do you remember where you stayed?
In Houston, I would stay. I had a... By that time, I
had a sister in Houston, in fact, in Houston, and I
would stay with her. And there was not a lot of
staying because, you know, you went to the game and
maybe you could spend that one night and then you
had to be back in before quarter quarters the next
day. And so there was not a lot that went on, really.
How, on court trips all of your years, How were
Aggies treated during the march and so forth by the
typical spectators? Oh, gosh, Haskell, they came
out by the thousands and lined the streets and
hollered at you and applauded, and the old band go
by, and people would just go bananas. It was no
shouting, ridicule, or anything like that.
Aggies were treated with Oh, I thought utmost
respect on those Corps trips. I thought we were
kind of treated special. Gosh, the Aggies are
coming to town. Let's fall out for them. Let's line
the streets for them. Oh, I can remember
photographs of those Corps trips and seeing
those. And my brain has just gone to sleep. I hadn't
thought about this. When did Corps trips stop? I
don't remember. Do you? When they stopped?
I don't know that they ever stopped. Well, did they
go on until the Southwest Conference was
terminated about 10 years ago? I don't even know.
Maybe they don't have any court trips now, none at
all. That has, I've gone to sleep. That's passed me
by. With SMU, TCU, and Rice gone. Yeah, where do you
go for? The only other would be UT or Baylor. And the
Baylor stopped. I don't know Haskell. In all of the
interviews, I have not gotten any negative on
court trips. No, it was fun, and we were treated
with tremendous respect. And I was also in the
singing cadets. As a fish? No, I started singing
cadets my second semester of my sophomore year.
We'll get to that in a second. Yeah. During that
freshman year, you went to Yale practice. Oh, yes.
Was it midnight, or was it earlier in the Grove? It
was in the Grove, and it was right after chow, the
best I remember. Haskell, I think it was just right
after chow, and it was at the Grove. How did people
behave? Oh... rowdy, a lot of hollering, but no
foul language to speak of, and no drinking. Did
they tell fables? Oh, goodness, yes. And they were
halfway clean fables. I mean, they would imply
some impropriety, but nothing just real bad. Oh,
no, I remember those well, yeah. Then No worse than
the Jody calls that we had marching around camp.
Well, we had Jody calls, and we'd get called down
every once in a while. The Bulls would send word
down no more of those Jody calls, you know. Did you
all have a rival outfit, core outfit, that you were
always kind of competing with, playing? Haskell,
I guess every one in what was called the second...
brigade over there, you know, A-2, B-2, C-2, D-2,
E-2, F-2, G-2, and the H-1 was real screwing that it
was assigned to that second brigade. It never was.
It was always assigned to second brigade. I guess
there was some competition, especially for
precision in marching and those sort of things,
but it seemed like most people wanted to do things
over at Henderson Hall where the jocks were. You
wanted to go over to Henderson Hall and put ink in
the swimming pool or whatever you could do to kind
of shake those guys up. Did you ever get caught in
any kind of a prank and get a punishment? Like
putting some ink in or caught a Babbo bomb? I was
involved in a couple of drown outs in one Babbo bomb
incident. And what? That was not caught on any of
them and denied any involvement. Used somebody
else's trash can on the drown out, you know,
instead of using your own. It wasn't smart to use
your own. It traced you back to where it came from.
Only two things that I thought were questionable.
Charlie Rollins, our first sergeant, there was a
junior Yale leader. I want to say that boy's name
was Sonny Todd. I can't remember his name. Maybe it
was Sonny Todd. We were told to... If we ever had a
chance to catch Sonny Todd to take a mattress
cover, you know, our bedding, our mattresses, we
were furnished by the Corps a mattress cover. And
to take him and put him in that mattress cover and
tie it up good and put him four or five feet up the
flagpole. And we did that. And it didn't hurt the
guy, but he didn't know exactly how high he was off
the ground. He did not want to flounce around too
much. I think that happened in the first water
fight we had as a fish. The second water fight is
probably the one where I made a dumb mistake. In
retrospect, it didn't really hurt anybody. And as
a more mature student, I would not have done it and
certainly would not advise anyone to do it. But in
our second water fight, my fishy old lady and I, we
were chasing, I believe, this same EL leader who
Charlie wanted us to get again. And he ran to the
door of the guard room at the end of dorm 14. and was
able to get into the guard room before we could get
any water on him. And I turned around and there was a
bull, Colonel Scott. And Colonel Scott was called
the Goose. That was his nickname, the Goose. I
turned around and the Goose was almost face to face
with me and I poured water on him. And ran and went
around and came in the side door 14. And Charlie
Rollins hid me in his closet while the goose went up
and down every hallway in 14, 15, 16, trying to find
who it was pouring water on him. And I could pass
Colonel Scott on the sidewalk, and I would very...
I would salute him, and it was, good morning, sir,
good afternoon, sir. And I know that he would say,
I've seen that fish somewhere before. That
probably was as much a... You never got caught on
that one? Never got caught on that one. No one told.
Rollins didn't tell. All right, on a serious side
of Good Bull, were you and some of your buddies ever
involved in a prank which now in hindsight you
realize was dangerous? Yeah, we threw M-80s when
we weren't supposed to throw M-80s, could have
blown hands off and blown toes off, a lot of things.
I was present when M-80s were flushed down the
crappers.
That could have, you know, you could have hurt
people doing those sort of things. I tried to put a
guy up a flagpole, you know, even though it might
not have been four or five feet was probably not the
best judgment in the world to use, but we did it.
Describe you and your buddy's role in Bonfire your
freshman year. I had it made. My buddies worked
their tails off, and their whole job, of course,
was just to carry logs out. That's all they got to
do. I stayed on the radio the whole time because I
was a ham radio operator, and I was in the
communication tent from day one to day in. About
how long did bonfire preparation take? Oh, I don't
remember it being more than a month. I would think
more in terms of two to three weeks, maybe. And
where was the cut area? Do you remember? Oh, no, I
really don't. I could not even begin to tell you
where the cut area was then. It was still on the
drill field. Still on the drill field. How did you
feel when you saw that fire? Oh, it was amazing. I
mean, just magnificent. You know, it was... I did
not associate it so much with that desire to beat
out of TU. I didn't associate it with that near as
much as I did, my goodness, look what we've put
together and look what we're doing. Yeah, it made a
lasting impression on me and will never forget my
first one. So when you go home, Christmas that
first year. Are you feeling pretty good about
being an Aggie? Haskell, I was when I got home. And
the toughest time of my life, until today, was the
Christmas break of my fifth year. I had had that
little accident, and like I say, it didn't slow me
down much. Got through bonfire because I was in
communications anyway. I got home, and you know,
back in those days, you came back after Christmas
to take final exams. And they had about a week of
class, maybe two weeks of class after Christmas,
and then a week of final exams. And I thought I was
reasonably prepared to come back and finish up the
semester. And like I would say, I was just an
average student. I was making B's and C's and not
really tearing anything up. But I got home and No
sweetheart or anything else involved. I just got
home, and home looked so good. And, you know, Mom
and Dad looked so good. My
youngest sister, I mean, those things, it was just
so emotional to go home. and really spend some
time, because that was essentially about it, you
know, I, I, it seemed like we did go home, uh, I can't
even remember, I don't even think I went home
Thanksgiving, I, it seemed like maybe, uh, I could
not tell you where we played it at A&M or Austin. I
don't remember. But I don't remember going home.
The only time I remember going home was the one time
when Snake Tommy got caught and then Christmas.
And I didn't want to come back. You mean you were
thinking about dropping us? Oh, yes, yes. I told my
mother that I was not going back. And mother's
response was, baby, you don't have to. What led you
to come back then? He pointed out that old green 55
Studebaker and told me to get in it. And he told me
the way to A&M, and he said, you go, boy. And so I did,
you know. And had it not been, I probably would have
dropped out. But my daddy told me that with tears in
his eyes. All right. Then by the end of that
semester, had you yet developed anybody that you
turned to for sound advice, courses, major?
Charlie Ransdell, Mickey McGuire, anybody like
that? No, I never saw a dean.
Gosh, I hate to admit this. I never saw a dean in my
undergraduate career. First dean I ever really
sat down with was Fred Benson when I was in graduate
school. And he was almost a new dean himself at the
time. I never talked to one of the subdeans when I
was in undergraduate school. I never got on
probation or anything, but I had to. Well, who did
you turn to to know what course to take?
Oh, goodness, Haskell. We worked much closer back
in those days with people like Austin Curley and
some of those people over at the Counseling and
Advising Center. It seemed like maybe most of the
counseling and advising was done by those people
on what courses to take rather than your academic
department. I remember it that way. That may not be
exactly correct, but that's the way I remember it.
We sat down and there were some advisors. in civil
engineering that helped us finally work out a
degree plan to make sure that we were following a
degree plan and, you know, had the prerequisites
and what have you. By spring, you are a civil
engineering major. In the spring, I am signing up
as a civil engineering major. That's correct. And
what did you think As you started looking at
engineering, what did you think you were going to
do? Were you going to be a real engineer or were you
going to be an academic? I was going to be a real
engineer at that time. And I did not change that
until my senior year. I didn't really decide that I
wanted to be an academic until I was a senior day in
Hill. Were you and your buddies aware of any easy
courses when you were an undergraduate? No, there
were no such. There were no such. Even P.E. was
absolutely. See, my first year, my fifth year, I
couldn't swim very well. And Art Adamson was the
swimming guru. They threw all of us in the old
natatorium. What was the name of it? Whatever the
name of the natatorium. Downs. Downs. Downs
Natatorium. Downs Natatorium. And everybody had
to jump in and swim from one end to the other. And if
you couldn't swim from one end to the other, you had
to take swimming and PE. So my first semester, I
took swimming. And my second semester, I took an
adaptive PE class, trying to build up some
strength in the back and more heavy. But those
courses were miserable. But no, there were no easy
courses. Gosh, I had, you know, you were not an easy
prof in history. I'm sorry. I don't know if you just
come out of rice and you felt like you had to be that
way. But I don't know. I don't remember any easy. I
remember no easy classes at all at Texas A&M High
School. Y'all didn't hear about any giveaways for
athletes? No. No, absolutely not. The only
courses that I knew of at that point where the
grading was easy, was Dan Russell, Dr. Dan the
grade point man over in Rural Sociology. There
were a couple of courses where you could pass if you
went to class. If you went to class. You might not
get an A. And they weren't just for athletes, they
were for anybody. No, we had a most difficult time.
Not only as a freshman, all through my
undergraduate career. In my junior and senior
year, academically, it got real tough in
engineering because there were a lot of the
athlete students, Air Force Institute of
Technology students, old Korean veterans, both
Army and Air Force. It just flooded the campus. And
I would say at least a third of my civil engineering
class were Army and Air Force officers. And hey,
man, they screwed the curve. And they were
serious. Well, all they had to do was go to class and
study and draw their pay. And my late junior,
senior year success, quite honestly, was tied to
three or four of those guys. Major Davis, Captain
Eads, Captain Custer, Jack Custer from Rock
Springs, Texas. I never will forget those guys.
They let me study with them. And my grades went up
tremendously. And then, of course, I married my
senior year, and grades continued to go up. But
now, the spring of your freshman year, you're
getting more serious, more sure you're going to
stay in school. Oh, yes. All right, then you go, at
the end of that first year, that summer, is that
when your father died? Yes. All right, and so
you're back home, and you stay with family through
the fall. Right. And then come back. Yes, I worked
for the Texas Highway Department during that
break. What did that do to you or that family?
period out of school, what did that do to your
determination about coming back to school? Go
back. Go back. Boy, there's something out there
for you. Working around those civil engineers at
the highway department, go back. There's
something out there for you. And I was very
motivated to come back. So you come back the spring
of what, of your second year? Yes. You weren't in
the Corps that semester? No. Where did you live?
Milder Hall. Was there any teasing about your
being a day duck? Yeah, there was teasing about
that, but I got through it, and then junior year
went right back into the Corps. Then after your
sophomore year, what did you do that summer? I
worked for the highway department. Okay. And in
that spring semester, I worked for TTI. Spring
semester, my sophomore year, I worked for TTI. Was
that a good maturing experience? Oh, absolutely,
yes, yes. That led so much to what I eventually did,
working for TTI and the state highway department.
And you said you had gotten in the singing cadets.
Describe that. What was that like? Oh, it was
tremendous. I had wanted to do it as a freshman and
just didn't feel like I could do it. Bob Boone was
very new as the director of the singing cadets. How
did he and others receive a new singing cadet?
Well, being how I had already been on campus for a
year or so, I didn't go through the typical buffoon
type of situation that the other brand new
freshman maybe had gone through, but I was a first
tenor and Boone was so much in need of tenors that I
think he would Taking anyone who could squeak. In
fact, I was called Squeak. That was my name. And
treated very, very fine. Describe the routine for
y'all. Where did you practice and when? We
practiced in the bottom floor of, I guess it was
Dorm 4. Let me think, dorm two, dorm four, dorm
three. I believe it was dorm four, bottom floor,
one end. We had risers in an over-large room there,
and that was the practice hall for the senior
cadets every day, five days a week at five o'clock.
Five to six? Uh-huh. Did that also get you out of
some bull in the corps? See, I was civilian that
first semester. I was actually a civilian that
semester. And I don't know if you know it or not, but
back in those days, there was kind of a compulsory
corps, non-compulsory corps, and I don't
remember exactly how that happened, but I was able
to come in as a civilian that semester. Went back
into the corps, first semester of my junior year.
But yeah, even then, yeah, you were out of some
bull. Was there, to get into the singing cadets,
was there any kind of... Audition. Audition? Yes.
And who... Bob Boone. Was it one-on-one? Yes, and
it was real unusual, Haskell. I could not read
music. I had no music in high school and didn't come
from a musically inclined family, although my
sisters were all beautiful singers, and my dad was
not bad. My dad knew what a pitch pipe was, and we
came from a... a religious practice, I'm Church
Christ, non-instrumental music. And so Boone
pulled out a few music pieces that I'd never seen
before in my life and said, can you read music? And I
said, no, I can't. And he says, well, what makes you
think you can be a singing cadet? I said, well, I
think I can sing. And he said, well, where have you
sung before? I said, well, I sing in church. And he
asked about piano accompaniment and what have
you. And I said, no, you know, it's all a cappella in
Church of Christ. So he says, OK. And he thumped
through some music. And he finally finds a
religious piece that you can sing a cappella. He
said, well, let's do it. And I think the lady that
was at the time the pianist for the group maybe hit
the starting key for it. And I actually sang
soprano lead on it, rather than a tenor part. And I
told him, I said, I can tell you right now, I cannot
start the tenor lead on that and sing the tenor on
that song, and he said, well, I'll sing the soprano
and you sing the tenor. And we did. And then he had
the pianist play another piece, and Bob and I kind
of played around on those, and I would pick up the
tenor, and he said, yeah, I think you'll make a
tenor for us. And I think he had four first tenors,
and the group was either 50 or 60. I can't remember
how many there were. I think maybe it was 50 in those
days. And he only had four first tenors, and he
said, I can really use a first tenor. So I probably
was selected as a singing cadet more because Bob
needed one other voice than I really had the
capability. But I learned a little music in the
process as I stayed in the cadets and thoroughly
enjoyed it. I really did. Now, you stayed through?
Yes, I stayed through the rest of my academic
career. In general, the singing cadets in that era
were made up of Describe the typical. About
two-thirds corps, one-third civilian.
Most of them just enjoyed singing. There were even
a few athletes in the group, as a matter of fact.
Could you generalize that they were all Baptist,
Methodist, church crazed? No, I don't think so. I
think it was a pretty good mixture. I know that when
we went on spring tours, we typically paid visits
to some of the big Methodist church and Baptist
church in Houston and Fort Worth, Dallas and what
have you. No, there was no particular group
represented in the cadets. It was pretty diverse.
And your spring tour lasted how long? A week, the
biggest part of a week. And you did something
afternoon and evening? Very common to do that,
yeah, and then get on the bus and try to make it to the
next place because, goodness, we'd go on a tour and
we'd leave here. And we'd go to El Paso on buses. And
we'd have concerts in Dallas, Fort Worth,
Midland, Odessa, you know, El Paso, and then catch
Waco on the way home or something. It was
jam-packed. Any pranks or jokes? among the scene
cadets on these trips? No, you know, I would have to
say that the behavior and the overall demeanor of
the scene cadets was a cut above, if you will, the
behavior of everyone else in general. I mean,
Boone didn't put up with a lot of nonsense. And see,
we almost always were staying in the homes of
either old former students or church leaders and
what have you. We very seldom ever stayed in
hotels. The only time we ever stayed in hotels
were, for example, Miss Teenage American Pageant
or something like that. All the rest of the time, we
were staying in the home. I never will forget
staying in the home of T.M. Smith. I don't know if
you remember the T.M. Smith and T.L. Smith. They
were big Aggies down in the West Columbia area, and
I never will forget going to that part of the world.
Now, they're not They're not the class of 99? 99 and
01 or something like that. Really? Oh, yes. Yes, I
stayed in Tim Smith's home. All right, the reason
my vibes start is that they were among the ardent
opponents. of co-education on compulsion. You
got it. Alright, do you remember anything,
hearing them talk about that? No, I remember Mr.
Smith showing us some oil wells, which he had
several of, but what I remember most, Haskell, and
it was so strange for a boy from the farm up in
northeast Texas going to his home, and he had a maid
and a butler. And we were greeted at the front door
by the butler. And when I got ready to clean up for
the concert, the butler helped me to the bath. I
mean, it was like, no, no, this is not really
happening to Ned Walden, you know. That was quite
an experience. And got ready to go. to the concert,
and typically what would happen is that whoever
your host was would drive you to the concert. Mr.
Smith handed me the keys to a brand new Chrysler
automobile. It seemed like I remember it having
300 or 400 miles on it. And after the concert, we
would go to parties that the local people would
host. And there was a judge, and I could not tell you
his name for anything, but this judge was hosting a
party for the singing cadets. And after the
concert...